{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature0 George Bool introduced boolean algebra in The Laws of Thought (1854) which can be used to make a robot. To state ideas formally you use symbolic logic, also known as Boolean algebra, though deductive reasoning was understood by ad-hoc methods before Boole.\
\
Boolean algebra can be used to make computers more cognizant.\
\
Syllogisms may have different strengths. Deduction (apodeixis) is strong, induction (epagoge) is weak.\
\
Given two propositions, A and B, it may happen that one is true if and only if the other is true; they have the same truth value. This may be by tautology. Or after immense mathematical labor.\
\
Two propositions with the same truth value are equally likely.\
\
A = B does not mean that A is equal to be, in Boolean algebra, but that A and B have the same truth value. Tripple bar, A \uc0\u8801  B, means 'equals by definition', as usual.\
\
Denial of a proposition is indicated by a bar (macron) or \'ac.\
\
\uc0\u256  \u8801  A is false\
\
Further, notice the difference between logical sum and logical product\
\
\'ac(AB) = AB is false\
\'ac(AB) = A + B\
\
\'acA \'acB = both A and B are false\
\
Idempotence\
    AA = A\
    A + A = A\
\
Commutativity\
    AB = BA\
    A + B = B + A\
\
Associativity\
    A(BC) = (AB)C = ABC\
    A + (B + C) = (A + B) + C = A + B + C\
\
Distributivity\
    A(B + C) = AB + AC\
    A + (BC) = (A + B)(A + C)\
\
Duality\
    If C = AB, then \'acC = \'acA + \'acB\
    If D = A + B, then \'acD = \'acA \'acB\
\
But by their application one can prove any number of further relations, some highly nontrivial. Consider this rather elementary theorem\
\
if \'acB = AD then A \'acB = \'acB and B \'acA = \'acA\
\
Implication\
\
A \uc0\u8658  B\
A = AB\
\
"A implies B". It says A \'acB is false or, the same thing, (\'acA + B) is true.\
\
Implication is a poor word. A = AB is false only when A is true and B is false. It is otherwise true.\
\
A = true  =  1\
B = false = -1\
\
A = AB = true = 1 - 1\
         1    = 0\
A = AB = true = 1 + 1\
         1    = 2\
A = AB = false  = -1 + 1\
         -1    = 0\
}